HOST: Next talk in
this session is You, Me,
and Your Content I Can't See.
Presented by Amy Carney.
Amy is an accessibility specialist
and web developer at Digilou.
There will be no Q&A
during this lightning round
but please use the ideas section
to Chat with other attendees.
Amy is here in the Chat and can
answer your questions there.
AMY CARNEY: I'm Amy Carney and
I'm an independent web designer
and developer and
accessibility consultant.
In my talk You, Me, and Your
Content I Can't See, I want to share
with you about my disability.
How we customize my devices and
what barriers I've encountered
on the web and suggestions
on how you can help.
So, I was born visually impaired.
I choose that label for
myself because it was the one
that I was given in childhood
and it's the one best
[unintelligible 01:37]
how I fit this visual world.
I'm not blind.
Legally and medically.
I don't qualify as legally
blind or even low vision.
But I can easily get a doctor's
note when I feel accommodations
are necessary.
I've never lost vision.
I've been given what
I've been given.
If anything, I've been
given more but it's fragile.
I rely on my glasses.
My thick lenses are a daily reminder
of the two worlds I live in.
Abled and disabled.
My glasses are my core assistive
technology you could say.
They keep my foot in
the world visual world
and maintain the
illusion that I'm abled.
Rather than going to the medical
specifics, I’d much rather describe
what my vision is like.
One eye is foggy.
I can't read with it.
I can't even distinguish
details with it.
Color and movement are
definitely my allies.
It really throws a wrench into my
depth perception and allows people
to sneak up on me on that side.
My other eye‘ s perception filled
isn't limited by my glasses.
Everything outside
of my lens is foggy.
Even with the lens, I don't have a
usable vision for the entire lens
because I have a bifocals.
A reading lens and a distance
lens [unintelligible 03:05]
for that space and when it tapers
off, so the prescription tapes off
for the magnification
strength I need.
So truly, I look through a small
focal point in my lens for clarity
and focus.
Thanks to surgeries and how my
anatomy is, I'm light-sensitive.
So bright light environments
can give me headaches.
To add to it, my eyes move
back and forth involuntarily.
They're trying to gather as
much visual information around
as possible but ironically that
can make focusing on things tricky.
I rely heavily on color,
contrast and movement.
With my clear eye to be able
to see as well as my foggy eye.
In the off-line world, sound and
touch are critical for understanding
what I'm seeing.
So, how do I as a visually
impaired person survive
in such a visually heavy world?
I join tech.
Computers accommodating to
me without me having to ask.
At a hardware level,
I can use bigger monitors.
I use devices that have the
accessibility options that I need,
which I'll discuss soon.
I allow my devices to
talk to each other.
So, thank you very
much Apple ecosystem.
At a system level,
I can enlarge the text size.
I can change the color scheme
whether it be high contrast mode
which my preference is yellow
on block or I can do dark mode.
I decreased the screen
resolution to make things bigger.
I make icons bigger.
I magnify the full screen.
I show text on hover like
a tool tip when I hover.
run my mouse pointer over
something like an image or text.
It will show the text in larger
print or even show me the alt text
of an image.
I have text spoken aloud
to me by the computer.
It's not a screen reader.
It's just a speak feature to do
whether a paragraph or a whole page.
I enlarge my mouse cursor size and
also customize it so it's yellow
to contrast on my dark mode Black.
I navigate by keyboard.
I have a keyboard and mouse user.
I use the keyboard
as much as possible
because there is a certain
tactileness to it and I can know
where I'm at but I use mouse
just because that's how things
are more easily reachable.
It really just depends
on the context.
But I know a whole lot of
shortcuts for my keyboard just
to make things easier for me.
For notifications, I receive
alerts through sound and flashing.
So, sometimes I can catch the
notification coming up at the corner
of my screen or above my screen.
For my laptop, I prefer sound
to go off so I know it's there.
When I have things magnified,
my screen will flash,
wants to let me know
I got a notification.
Additionally, I increase contrast
with my system just
a little bit enough
to make things stand
out a little more.
At a browser level, I can Zoom in.
To be clear, I really only
Zoom and about 115-130% max
because I have a lot of things
changed already at the system level.
So I’ll Zoom in just a little
bit more on the browser.
I often switched to reader mode.
Especially for blogs
in a long articles.
I'm a Firefox user on my
laptop which has reader mode
and allows me to use
white text on black.
It also has an audio feature
that will read text aloud to me.
On my iPhone, I have Safari as my
browser and that has a reader mode
as well and lets me
do the same thing.
Additionally, the browser I
consider the search text tool
as an accessibility tool for me.
I can press control F and
then I can quickly find
the information I'm
looking for especially
on articles I've read before
and it doesn't have to be a
tedious task to be able to find
what I read.
So, what prevents me from
reading your content?
Well, when things are fixed
on the screen, a nav bar,
a footer or God forbid if
both fixed on the screen,
it narrows down my reading filled.
Think about how you read things.
You’re really skimming aren’t you.
Your eyes kind of skip
around in a pattern.
You're looking for keywords.
You don't just slowly read text.
And with that in mind,
sometimes I'm limited to three lines
at a time on my laptop.
And that's a 16-inch screen.
So that can get very fatiguing to
be able to read a minimal amount
of text at a time when I'm not
even enlarging it more than 115%,
it's ridiculous.
Ellipsis, hidden
content, the three dots.
People like to hide content because
they like their neat little cards
or boxes of information
with fixed width and height
and often times that
information isn't available
beyond those three dots.
There is no link to go
to read more elsewhere.
There's not a pop-up.
It doesn't expand.
It's just gone.
And that's terrible
when I enlarge my text.
The more I have my text enlarged,
whether it's at system level
or browser level,
more content disappears.
And I can't ever get to it.
Is a true blocker.
Other problems that come along with
fixed width and height for boxes
and cards and such even half bars
sometimes is that content will tend
to overlap.
It's not allowing text to
push the container size
and so when it starts overlapping
it makes things unreadable.
I see this a lot in nav bars
too because people think it has
to be a certain size.
On that note, mobile apps in
particular that don't adapt
from portrait to landscape.
When I like to read longer text,
I like to go into landscape mode
where there's more
information to read.
So it creates a better flow,
more words per line for me.
Despite my text size.
And when I don't have a landscape
option the reading feels very choppy.
Sometimes things will
start to overlap.
Bright, white backgrounds,
that stark white
in feeding text can be
really hard when you dampen
that a little bit it helps
but bright, bright whites.
Especially when I'm functioning off
of dark mode, it can be very jarring.
Small unscalable text.
It's astounding to me
in 2022 that people are
still creating font size
with pixels when it needs
to be more flexible than that
and respect people settings
with more relative units.
For contrast,
that's still a big one.
This whole gray text on
white is really tough.
And I've seen a lot where borders
and things aren't enough contrast
so even when I increase my
contrast, they kinda fade away.
So I can't see where
my input boxes at.
It's weird.
Very confusing because I
can't find the input box.
And lastly, overlays.
Any type of overlay.
Back to top links that are
fixed at the bottom oftentimes
those will cover up
part of the text.
Chat box bubbles, video ads
because those actually tend
to cover up my whole content.
Social media links when
those are fixed to the side.
They will literally cover
a chunk of the paragraph.
That I can't read the paragraph
even though I'm scrolling through
because they're stacked.
And then accessibility widgets
that are supposed to be helpful
but they are counterproductive.
I've tried experimenting
with those to see
if increasing text
size would be good.
But instead it ends up
smashing things together
because the layout
doesn't really flow.
The contrast doesn't always work
out because it's not thought out
and so sometimes links will
not have a good contrast color
even though regular text might have
the white or the yellow on Black.
So, those kinds of things aren't very
helpful to someone like me at all.
Just let me use what I'm doing with
my system and my browser settings.
So, despite this long list
of things you're probably
either feeling overwhelmed by how can
I tackle these each of these things.
But I want to encourage you not
to overthink it what you need
to do for this.
I've shared these details
about my experiences,
my disability problems I've
had to help you understand
that I don't fit into a neatly
wrapped visually disabled box.
But each bullet point I've
shared shouldn't be addressed
as an entire checklist of
things for you to go through.
I want to encourage you
that if you're following
the Web content accessibility
guidelines WCAG.
You're actually going to fulfill
my wish list of things that I like
to see better about the web because
they advocate for me in that way.
So here's what I want.
I want text that scalable.
Relative units not fixed units,
I want colors that respect
might skim preferences,
if you have taken the time
to create a dark mode
theme, that's wonderful.
I appreciate that.
But if I'm using Windows high
contrast mode, I want to be able
to see outlines in SPT's.
It's amazing how many times those
things disappear if I switch over
to Windows high contrast mode.
I'd also like to see light
backgrounds that don't overwhelm
or fatigue me or
give me a headache.
I want strong color contrast
between the text doing borders,
outlines, background.
I appreciate that people try to
be, meet criteria for the 4.5
to one but sometimes I need it to
pop a little bit more especially
with the way I do my custom
settings on my machines.
So if you can make it pop a little
bit more, I'd like to see that.
I need a reader mode compatibility.
WordPress themes often are reader
mode compatible so I can go
to somebody's WordPress blog
and I'll be able to toggle over
to reader mode but there's still
quite a few news websites out there
and other people's blogs that I'm
still stuck with their choices
and not my choices.
Flexible layouts I need
things to expand and reflow
when my text is bigger.
Regardless of what I’ve chosen
for my systems resolution
and take settings.
I want to be able
to read the content.
I want it to not
overlap or disappear.
Next, I need a strong
visible focus indicators.
So as I'm a heavy keyboard
user, I want to be able to see
where my focus is that especially
when I'm filling out a form
or even see where the link is
if I'm tabbing through something
that has a lot of links
or the navigation.
I need decent white space.
Some visual breathing
room on the page.
You know,
not too tight but not too sparse.
I need a little bit of room.
I also would like to see all mobile
apps be able to use landscape
and portrait.
That's the right thing to do.
Because I need that
on a lot of things.
I cannot see any reason
immediately of why there would
only be portrait view for any app.
As I mentioned earlier,
please no sticky objects on the page.
Get rid of that Chat
box that pops up.
Open it up somewhere else or have
the round button somewhere else
that I can just get to may
be in the navigation bar.
Stop sticky navigation, I promise
you I can find your navigation
and I have a keyboard
shortcut for that.
I can find what I need.
So please stop sticking things
in the way of the content
that you want me to read.
And lastly,
don't use accessibility overlays.
They are completely useless to me.
They are counterproductive
and they usually don't work.
They work against the
settings that I already have.
So, that's all I've
got to share today.
I hope you found it useful.
If you have questions,
you can find me on Twitter.
I'm very active on there
@click2carney or on Github @digilou.
If you're curious about
how I started out learning
about web accessibility check
out my blog at 100daysofa11Ycom.
Thanks for listening.
I hope you'll join me in making
a better web for everyone.